[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and nina warhurst headlines
for you at six o'clock this morning
don't blow it now the health secretary
matt hancock's message as crowds of
people enjoy the hottest march
temperatures for more than 50 years
it's the final day of shielding for
millions of clinically vulnerable people
in england and wales who've stayed at
home
over the pandemic suspends the
astrazeneca kobe vaccine for the under
60s after fresh
safety concerns
good morning from noseley safari visitor
numbers to attractions across the uk
plummeted
by 70 last year but i'll be finding out
how our destinations are planning to
reopen
in just two weeks time good morning a
big win for wales in world cup
qualifying dan james with a crucial goal
in cardiff
as they beat the czech republic to get
their campaign back on track
and we meet 89 year old john wilcock
roller skating around his courtyard
and raising money for charity walking's
a bit boring
jogging's a bit boring along comes tom
with his trolley and i thought yes with
my wife's roller
i'll be able to escape good morning from
the roof of the bbc
in london yesterday was the warmest
march day since 1968 the temperature
reached 24.5 celsius in kew gardens
today we could see similar very much
depends
on cloud amounts there'll be one or two
showers and heavy and persistent rain
pushing south across scotland
getting into northern ireland and
weakening as it does so but i'll have
all the details
in about 10 minutes
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday it's the
31st of march at the health secretary
has warned people who are enjoying the
easing of lockdown restrictions not to
blow it ahead of another day of hot
temperatures
matt hancock issued his warning
yesterday evening saying people should
enjoy the sun
but should do it safely after the
country's hottest march day in 53 years
any more reports it was enough to make
you
dance with joy a wonderful spring day
with some of the highest temperatures in
more than half a century
and with lockdown easing the freedom to
go out
and enjoy it beaches were busy in many
locations this was real
in north wales there's more good weather
forecast in many parts of the uk today
but the health secretary is warning us
not to abuse our newfound freedoms
in a tweet matt hancock said let's enjoy
the sun
but let's do it safely we have come so
far
don't blow it now and the scientists are
echoing that cautious message
just because you're out in the fresh air
that doesn't mean you can't catch
kovid you are meeting other people in an
outdoor environment you do need to keep
that two meter distance at all times
if you don't of course then the sort of
the fact that we're
outdoors is somewhat negated by the fact
that you're in close proximity to one
another and there is the risk then if
you happen to be infected
or you are close to someone that is
infected then there is
a greater risk of the virus being
transmitted
not surprisingly public parks have been
crowded
this was platfield's park in manchester
where police estimated about 3 000
people had gathered
it was quieter yesterday at nottingham's
arboretum
after police declared powers to clear
away anyone being disruptive
visitors were being searched for alcohol
on entry
on monday on the first day of lockdown
easing there were large unruly crowds in
the park
with no sign of social distancing this
was the message from the council leader
to anyone breaking the guidelines please
stop
covert is not something to be messed
around with to be trifled with this is a
dangerous disease
that has caused people to die in our
city we are not yet
the situation where all of our
restrictions have been rolled back
just a gradual easing of those
restrictions
please don't abuse that london's parks
have also been busy with sunseekers
with a temperature of 24 and a half
degrees celsius at kew gardens
it was the hottest march day in 53 years
temperatures in the capital could reach
similar or even higher levels today
soon many of the four million people
have been shielding in england and wales
will be able to get out and about to
enjoy the good weather
this is their last day under special
restrictions
it's tempting to think the worst months
are now behind us
but the message from the authorities is
stay safe
and stay cautious andy moore bbc news
germany has suspended the use of the
astrazeneca vaccine for people under the
age of 60
because of concerns around blood clots
the german medicines regulator found 31
cases of a type of rare blood clot out
of 2.7 million people who'd received the
jab
this comes after canada limited use of
the vaccine to the over 55s mark labelle
has more
31 cases of a rare form of blood clot in
the brain
appearing between 4 to 16 days after an
astrazeneca jab
now linked to 9 deaths caused german
chancellor
angela merkel to raise the alarm
trust arises from the knowledge that
every suspicion
every individual case will be
investigated the federal and state
governments
stand behind this the german leader
concedes
this sudden change will delay germany's
vaccination program in the near future
so far only 11 percent of the population
has received their first
jab now the over 60s may see more of the
astrazeneca supply coming their way
it's been quite a roller coaster with
this jab
originally astrazeneca hadn't delivered
what they'd promised to germany
germany's vaccine committee then only
advised it for people
under 65 then there was a brief pause
while blood clots were investigated now
this
nasty is recommending an immediate pause
in the use of the astrazeneca vaccine
canada has also suspended use of the
vaccine for people under 55
though even those behind that
recommendation fear it risks
undermining confidence at a critical
time the last thing we want to do
is is contribute to any sort of
hesitancy around the vaccine
and that's what keeps me up at night but
at the same time
if i can't confidently tell someone that
i know that the benefits outweigh the
risks because of their age
because of their risk of covid you know
i can't give them that medication
but astrazeneca insists the benefits far
outweigh any of the risks
the who and uk regulator both say it's
fine
mark lobel bbc news
now britain has become one of the most
successful multicultural societies in
europe according to new reports set up
by the government in response to last
summer's black lives matter protests
he looked at racial inequalities in
education employment health and criminal
justice
it says the evidence does not support
concerns that the uk is institutionally
racist
campaigners say there are still stark
differences in many
british institutions the archbishop of
canterbury
canterbury has addressed for the first
time the claim made by the duchess of
sussex that she and prince harry
got married three days before the royal
wedding during her interview with oprah
winfrey broadcast earlier this month
megan said she and the duke of sussex
had a secret ceremony
with justin welby in their backyard but
in a newspaper interview in italy the
archbishop said the legal wedding was on
saturday
a woman whose mobile phone footage of
george floyd being pinned down by police
officers went viral has given evidence
at his murder trial
darnell frazier told the court in
minneapolis that mr floyd was suffering
and seemed terrified
another witness said he'd called
emergency services to report a murder
the policeman derek shoving denies
murder and manslaughter
a scheme to fit electronic tags on
offenders to see if they're breaching
court-ordered drinking bans is being
rolled out across england
the sobriety tags alert probation
services if alcohol is detected
the scheme has been in operation across
wales since october
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with
dot bbc.co.uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news